Blog post about the new RESTEasy Reactive dispatching strategy (#1106)
quarkusio/quarkusio.github.io: _posts/2021-08-23-resteasy-reactive-smart-dispatch.adoc

---
layout: post
title: RESTEasy Reactive - To block or not to block
date: 2021-08-25   
tags: reactive rest
synopsis: Quarkus 2.2 includes a new dispatching strategy to make RESTEasy Reactive even better.
author: cescoffier
---

:imagesdir: /assets/images/posts

> In January 2020, the Quarkus team announced RESTEasy Reactive, a novel way to serve HTTP API in Quarkus. 

Reviewer: I think it was 2021, no?

Author: Wait a minute, aren't we in 2020? Damned!

   MutinyEmitter<Fruit> emitter;

   @POST
   public void writeToKafka(Fruit fruit) {
       System.out.println(Thread.currentThread().getName());
       emitter.send(fruit).await().atMost(Duration.ofSeconds(5));
   }
}
----
    
=== Combining RESTEasy Reactive, Hibernate ORM and Kafka

Let's now combine Resteasy _reactive_, Hibernate ORM _classic_ and Kafka to persist an entity and write it to a Kafka topic: 

[source, java]    
----
package org.acme;

import io.smallrye.mutiny.Uni;
import io.smallrye.reactive.messaging.MutinyEmitter;
import org.eclipse.microprofile.reactive.messaging.Channel;

import javax.transaction.Transactional;
import javax.ws.rs.POST;
import javax.ws.rs.Path;

@Path("/fruit")
public class FruitResource {

   @Channel("kafka")
   MutinyEmitter<Fruit> emitter;

   @POST
   @Transactional
   public Uni<Void> persistAndWriteToKafka(Fruit fruit) {
       System.out.println(Thread.currentThread().getName());
       fruit.persist();
       return emitter.send(fruit);
   }
}
----

This method runs on a worker thread despite the signature. 
The `@Transactional` annotation configures the dispatching strategy to use a worker thread.
    
   
== Summary
    

> With Quarkus 2.2, the dispatching strategy of RESTEasy _reactive_ becomes smarter to improve the developer experience. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Quarkus 2.2, the dispatching strategy of RESTEasy _reactive_ becomes smarter thus improving the developer experience. 
```
